=== United Kingdom ===

There are a number of forms of legal entity in the United Kingdom, including some types of business partnership, companies incorporated under the Companies Acts, mutual societies, some types of charitable organisation, and others including chartered corporations and statutory corporations.
Partnerships (other forms of partnership exist that are not legal entities):

General partnership (in Scotland)
Limited liability partnership (LLP)
Scottish limited partnership (SLP)
Companies – corporations incorporated under the Companies Act 2006 (or previous companies acts):

Private limited company (Ltd or Limited; Welsh: Cyfyngedig or Cyf)
Private company limited by shares. The liability is limited to the amount, if any, unpaid on the shares held by them. Its shares cannot be traded publicly.
Private company limited by guarantee. The liability is limited to such amount as the members undertake to contribute to the assets of the company in the event of its being wound up.
Private unlimited company (Welsh: cwmni anghyfyngedig). A company with no limit on the liability of its members.
Public limited company (PLC; Welsh: Cwmni Cyfyngedig Cyhoeddus or CCC). A limited company whose shares may be traded publicly.
Community interest company (CIC) – a company that carries out activities for the benefit of the community. These may be either a company limited by guarantee or a company limited by shares.
UK Societas (UKS) – the form taken by a UK-registered Societas Europaea (European public limited company) from 1 January 2021 following Brexit. Treated in most respects like a public limited company.
Mutual societies:

Co-operative or community benefit society – these may be co-operatives run for the benefit of members, community benefit societies run for the benefit of the community, or charitable community benefit societies run for the public benefit. Pre-commencement societies (formerly known as an industrial and provident society) were registered with the Financial Conduct Authority before 1 August 2014 (6 April 2018 for Northern Ireland).
Credit union - a financial co-operative.
Building society
Friendly society
Charities:

Charitable company – a type of company limited by guarantee. Charities incorporated in this form may apply for exemption from the requirement to include "Ltd" (or one of the other forms) in their company name.
Very rarely, a company limited by shares where the shareholders have no right to receive dividends may be registered as a charity; for example, St John's College, Durham, where the council members are the shareholders, and Harvard Global Research, a UK company limited by shares where the sole shareholder is Harvard Global Research and Support Services Inc., a US-based charity.
Charitable incorporated organisation (CIO) – registered with the Charity Commission for England and Wales.
Scottish charitable incorporated organisation (SCIO) – registered with the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator.
Other forms:

Corporation by prescription - a corporation that has existed since time immemorial: the University of Oxford, the University of Cambridge and the City of London Corporation.
Chartered corporation – an organisation incorporated by royal charter. These are normally bodies operating in the public interest, e.g., charities or professional bodies, but also including many older universities and, historically, chartered companies.
Statutory corporation – a corporation created by statute and having only those powers granted by that statute.
Classifications:

Corporation sole – a corporation consisting of a single person, normally an incorporated official position such as the Archbishop of Canterbury or the Clerk of the House of Commons. A corporation made up of more than one person (i.e., all other corporations) is a corporation aggregate.
Ecclesiastical corporation – a Church of England corporation (aggregate or sole) established for spiritual purposes. All other corporations are lay corporations.
Eleemosynary corporation – a lay corporation established by a financial endowment "for the perpetual distribution of the free alms or bounty of the founder". All other lay corporations, including other charities, are civil corporations.


