=== India ===

In India, the Companies Act 2013 provides for public and private companies and introduced the one person company as a single-member private company; naming conventions include "Limited" for public companies and "Private Limited".

Sole proprietorship – a sole proprietorship firm is the simplest form of business entity in India. It is owned and managed by a single person. It is usually considered to be the easiest way of registering and starting a business. It is not governed by any law and hence it is the easiest form of business in India. All the decisions and management of the business are in the hands of one person. Documents required for the registration of a sole proprietorship in India are Aadhar card, PAN card, bank account and a proof of registered office.
Hindu Undivided Family (HUF) - a type entity consisting of members of a joint Hindu family. HUF represent a joint family that is held togrther by strong ties of kinship and estails a variety of joint property relations among the members. The Karta is the head of the family business, who generally is the eldest person in the house. HUF exists both as a family and as a firm.
Partnership – liability is joint and unlimited. Registration is not compulsory and can be done through the registrar of firms. Active partners take part in day-to-day operations of the business, in addition to investing in it. Active partners are entitled to a share of the enterprise's profits. Sleeping partners invest in the business and are entitled to a share of its profits but do not participate in day-to-day operations.
Limited liability partnership – liability is limited and similar to a partnership except that registration is mandatory and liability is limited. At least two partners are 'designated partners' (equivalent to directors in a company), who manage day-to-day working. Regulated by the union government.
Companies under the Companies Act 2013 include:
Private limited company – a company with 2–200 shareholders; shares are held privately and cannot be offered to the public. Have limited liability and registration is mandatory. Regulated by the union government.
Public limited companies – a company with more than 200 shareholders. Can be listed or unlisted in the share market.
One-person company – a type of private company which can have only one director and member.
Unlimited company – a company, similar to a limited company (Ltd, or Pvt Ltd) but where the liability of the members or shareholders is not limited.
Public sector undertaking (PSU) – alternatively known as public sector enterprise (PSE). It may be a public limited company listed on stock exchanges with a major ownership by a state government, central government, or local government, or it may be an unlisted entity with a major ownership by a state government, central Government, or local government. Some of these entities are formed as business entities through special legislation, where these entities are governed by the statutes of this legislation and may or may not be governed by company laws like a typical business entity.
Cooperative societies, e.g., Gujarat Co-operative Milk Marketing Federation Ltd. (GCMMF) owner of the Amul brand.
NGO – A non-governmental organization (NGO), section 8 company, or a non-profit company is a citizen-led organization that functions separately from the government, usually to advance some social cause.


